So, we're gonna start making
some network request now.
So, I had this app and
I need to make a request to an API,
to get a new list of breeds, right?
Because every time I switch from bird,
which is gonna have parrot and
cockatiel and cockatoo and
things like that.
And I go to cat,
which is gonna have tabbies and
main coons and things like that.
I need to request a new set of breeds,
right, from the API.
So we're gonna use something
called an effect, use effect.
Okay, okay,
we'll do breed list in a second.
We're actually gonna do
the search part first.
So that you can actually search for
pets from the API.
So, we are gonna use still in effect for
this.
And effect is basically something
that's going to happen outside of your
component, right?
So I have my location, animal and breed.
But then once I have those and
user clicks Submit,
I want that to go out to my API and
get a new list of pets so
that the user can see what
they've searched for, right?
That's what these effects are for.
It's like go retrieve this
from some other place or
go do something outside of
the life cycle of my component.
So typically that's API requests.
I'm gonna say most of the time that's
an API request, but it could be like,
go get this from local storage, or go
retrieve this from some other location, or
go save this to an API.
Go post this to an API, or
go save this to local storage.
But it's something outside of your
normal kind of life cycle there.
Okay, so we're gonna add another user
here which is gonna be pets and set pets.
Equals use state,
that's going to be just an empty array of
pets that we've retrieved from the API.
And then here I'm gonna say use effect and
this is gonna be a function.
Okay, and then at the beginning
of whenever this gets set,
I'm gonna say requestpets.
And I'm gonna write this function,
I'm gonna go to the API and
request pets from the API.
Okay, and then here, I'm gonna make
an async function called request pets
And const res equals
await fetch backticks.
Notice, I'm using backticks here not
single quotes or double quotes, but
backticks says the one next
to the one on the keyboard.
HTTP or HTTPS, either ones fine I think.
pets-v2.devdash
apis.com8/pets question
mark animal = animal and
location =$,
&breed= This
is a template string if you're
not familiar with JavaScript, and
this is basically how you insert like
a animal from here into it, right?
That's what template strings are for.
Okay, this is gonna go out and
fetch this from the API.
If we want the JSON back from it so
we're gonna say const JSON
equals await res.JSON.
And then we're just gonna call set pets,
this function up here that we
just created with json.pets.
Okay, so now we're gonna have a whole
list of pets coming back from the API.
We would like to render that as well.
So underneath our form here.
Yeah, underneath the form but still inside
of the larger div, going to say pets.map.
It's going to take in a pet and
it's going to return a pet from./pet.
And we're going to pass
in name=
animal= and
breed=.
Now one more thing here
before we close this off.
We were rendering out all these
various different components.
What happens if, I filter my list
differently, so now I'm sorting by breed
now instead of sorting by animal,
So I have the same
group of elements in my array, but
I've decided to order them differently.
According to React,
all it knows is that array changed and
it doesn't know how it changed.
So what it's gonna do is it's
going to destroy everything inside
of that render tree and
totally render it from scratch.
Which is unnecessary, right?
It'd be better if it's just like,
you just re rendered the same things, but
in a different order.
I'm gonna, instead of destroy
everything and re-render it.
It'd be cool if I could just swap them,
right?
So you can give it this thing called key,
and if you give it some sort of
unique handle per thing,
it can figure that out on it's own.
So each one of these pets has an ID.
So if I give it this
key pet = ID like this,
it can now have a handle on the like,
okay?
I'm just gonna swap these instead
of destroying everything.
And the other thing is React will
yell at you until you give it a key.
The key here is that the key here.
Nice, good job, Brian.
The key here is that it's a unique
identifier per object in your array.
So even if you swapped all of
the various different things,
the ID would be the same.
So name would be a bad key here, right?
Because if I have three different bingos,
right?
It's gonna think that this bingo
is the same as this bingo and
then it's gonna get mad.
So make sure that it's unique per thing.
There has to be some sort
of unique identifier.
If you don't have a unique identifier,
you don't have to give it one.
A bad idea here is you
can give it an index.
But if I swap bingo from 0 to 3,
the index doesn't follow it, right?
So, it's gonna destroy and
re-render it anyway, or
worse it's gonna get like not gonna
work well, so, don't do this either.
Okay, so you did pet here, I imported pet
at the top as well, make sure you do that.
And then one more thing here.
And a fact Runs, every single time,
you re-render the application.
So, you re-render this
component by default.
So, this is going to request the pets
every single time that I type,
which is not what I want,
I only want that on submit events, right?
So how do we do that?
You can give it an array of dependencies.
And here if I give it nothing,
then it's only going to request
once at the beginning and
then it's never going to do it again,
which is actually what I want.
The only time after this that I want to
call request pets is on Submit ,right?
On the form submit, which so
that puts the user in control of
when this research is for things.
So let's go take a look at
this make sure it's working.
You can see here I'm getting things back
from the API now, which is cool, right?
But now even if I click Submit and
things like that it's not going to work.
What happens if I wanted to automatically
research every time they changed animal?
While they put an animal in here,
this is now telling React, hey,
every time that animal changes,
I want you to rerun request pets.
So now if I do this, Now
it's doing it every single time that I
change this, right, which is kinda cool.
But notice that it doesn't change
every time I type in location.
How would I do that?
Well, give it location as well.
And now, every time that I type in here,
It's researching.
Every time that I type something in there.
Honestly also not what I want.
I don't want it to do it ever after
the first time, so again, empty array.
That's what I wanted to
do in the first time.
It's gonna give you a warning and say,
hey, you have this request, pet's thing.
And it's not a dependency on this.
Typically what the exhaustive hooks
rule wants you to do is it wants you to
declare all of your dependencies like
every time this changes, please do that.
It's actually not what I want right now,
but it's looking for you to do this.
And then it's gonna say like well,
this is not a good idea.
Maybe you should move this
inside of here and so
he was like okay I'll do this inside of it
and then it wants you to do a location,
animal, And breed.
And then finally,
this is going to be satisfied.
But this is not the behavior that
I'm actually looking for, right?
The behavior that I'm actually looking for
is on submit for this research.
So what I had the first time
was actually what I wanted.
So I'm going to delete that.
We're gonna say on submit here.
And this is a function.
The first thing to say is
e.prevent default cuz we don't
actually want it to fully form submit,
right?
And then we're going to say request pets.
This is now the behaviour
that we're looking for.
So if I go over here and
refresh, and I click cat,
nothing has searched now but
if I click Submit, now I get cats.
That's the workflow I was looking for.
Okay, I still have this like annoying,
like warning, right?
So you can actually click on this.
You can say disable,
React hooks exhaustive for this line.
And by doing that, now it actually
going to ignore that and go.
The way I actually have
my notes is this way.
So how do we wanna do that?
I'm gonna do it this way.
Set, not disable next line,
just disable line.
And there we go.
You'll find that you'll do this somewhat
frequently with exhaustive depth.
That's why it's a warning and
not an error.
Even though it's a warning and
like my, CI would pass with this.
I like to be explicit as like,
I'm explicitly,
I know that there's an error here and
I am ignoring it.
Because it's not the behavior that
I wanted to describe with my code.
That makes sense?
Do the dependencies make sense here?
You're basically just telling me like,
hey, when do I run this effect again?
And by giving it an empty array,
the answer to that question
is never run this again.
Run it once so that the workflow here,
it's gonna do its first render
without using this effect.
And then immediately after that effect has
finished or the render has finished, so
that you can like show a loading screen or
whatever you need to do there.
As soon as that's done,
then run this effect.
By giving it an empty array,
you're saying never do this again.
After that very first time,
never do it again.
If I leave this off, Now,
it's gonna run all the time.
No matter what, if it detects anything
ever changing ever, look at that.
Like it gets really janky.
So don't do that either.
Cuz it's rendering every time
that it calls pets, right?
So don't do that either.
Yeah.
>> Before hooks, would we have done
this with component did mount is this
effectively replacing component did mount?
>> Yes, that's exactly what's replacing.
I think it actually runs
literally at the same time.
So yeah, I think it's totally the same.
We'll look at class components
here in just a second, so
we'll get more into the depth on that.
>> Is this a good example
of best practices for
using a third party API in a form?.
>> Yeah, this is exactly how you do it.
[COUGH] We're about to
get into React query,
which is kind of like the next
level on top of that.
But for pure React with nothing else,
this is how you do it.
Really the only way to do it
>> Why is it necessary to run request pets
initially?
>> So it's good question,
why do I wanna run it initially?
Notice that this has a list of dogs,
a list of list of pets on load.
If I don't run this effect,
now there's nothing, right?
Nothing loads on initially.
So you wanna do it so
that something loads initially, right?
All right, so
now I have learned on all that.
So you're showing these or something.